>> Ifill: IN A RARE NEWS
CONFERENCE, C.I.A. DIRECTOR
JOHN BRENNAN DEFENDS HIS AGENCY
AGAINST CLAIMS OF TORTURE,
ADMITS TO MISTAKES, AND SAYS THE
VALUE OF HARSH TACTICS AGAINST
SUSPECTED TERRORISTS IS
UNKNOWABLE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY,
PROTESTS CONTINUE ACROSS THE
COUNTRY IN RESPONSE TO RECENT
POLICE KILLINGS.
WE EXPLORE HOW LAW ENFORCEMENT
CAN OCC IN URA WAY THAT REDUCES
UNNECESSARY USE OF DEADLY FORCE.
>> THE CONVERSATION HERE CAN'T
JUST BE ABOUT THE TACTICS WE
USE.
IT HAS TO BE ABOUT THE
RELATIONSHIPS THAT WE BUILD.
RELATIONSHIP OF TRUST.
BUILDING LEGITIMACY IN THE EYES
OF OUR COMMUNITY.
>> Ifill: THEN, AS NATIONS
MEETING IN LIMA WORK TOWARD A
NEW GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
TREATY, PERU'S INDIGENOUS
POPULATIONS CALL FOR BETTER
PROTECTION OF THEIR LANDS FROM
ENVIRONMENTAL EXPLOITATION.
>> THIS DEMONSTRATION WAS SET UP
AS A KIND OF COUNTER TO THE
OFFICIAL CLIMATE CHANGE
GATHERING TAKING PLACE ACROSS
TOWN.
THE IDEA HERE WAS TO RAISE THE
WORLD'S AWARENESS OF INCREASING
AND INCREASINGLY VIOLENT
ENCROACHMENT ON TRIBAL AREAS
HERE IN PERU AND SEWHELERE
AROUND THE GLOBE.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, DISSECTING
INNOCENCE, TRUE CRIME AND THE
JUSTICE SYSTEM, WEEK AFTER WEEK
IN THE BREAKOUT NON-FICTION
PODCAST "SERIAL."
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE CLOCK TICKED
DOWN TODAY ON LI
113TH CONGRESS AND ON
AUTHORIZING ENOUGH MONEY TO KEEP
AT MIDNIGHT,
AND HOUSE REPUBLICAN LEADERS
PRESSED FOR PASSAGE OF A
SPENDING BILL WORTH $1.1
TRILLION.
>> THIS LEGISLATION IS A
COMPROMISE.
THE PRODUCT OF HARD FOUGHT
NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE HOUSE
AND SENATE WITH GIVE AND TAKE
FROM BOTH SIDES.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY MR.
SPEAKER IT REFLECTS CONSERVATIVE
PRIORITIES, KEEPS OUR SPENDING
IN LINE, AND REINS IN REGULATORY
OVERREACH THAT HAS BEEN
HAMPERING OUR ECONOMY.
>> Woodruff: THE G.O.P. LEADERS
STRUGGLED TO CORRAL
CONSERVATIVES WHO WANTED TO STOP
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S ACTIONS ON
IMMIGRATION.
ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE, MINORITY
LEADER NANCY PELOSI SAID SHE WAS
ENORMOUSLY DISAPPOINTED THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA ENDORSED THE
BILL.
SHE BLASTED SEVERAL KEY
PROVISIONS, INCLUDING A ROLLBACK
OF REGULATIONS ON BIG BANKS.
>> THIS IS A MORAL HAZARD.
WE'RE BEING ASKED TO VOTE FOR A
MORAL HAZARD, WHY IS TH IN ISAN
APPROPRIATIONS BILL?
BECAUSE IT WAS THE PRICE TO PAY
TO GET AN APPROPRIATIONS BILL.
I WAS TOLD WE COULDN'T GET ALL
THESE OTHER THINGS THAT HAVE
BEEN DESCRIBED HERE SO
BEAUTIFULLY UNLESS WE GAVE WALL
STREET THIS GIFT.
>> Woodruff: REPUBLICAN LEADERS
SAID WHATEVER HAPPENS, THEY MEAN
TO AVOID A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN,
BY AT LEAST PASSING A SHORT-TERM
SPENDING MEASURE.
BUT THE FEDERAL OFFICE OF
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT TOLD THE
NEWSHOUR IT'S LAYING CONTINGENCY
PLANS, JUST IN CASE.
>> Ifill: A POWERFUL STORM
WALLOPED THE WEST COAST TODAY
WITH UP TO EIGHT INCHES OF RAIN,
KNOCKING OUT POWER, DISRUPTING
FLIGHTS AND RAISING FEARS OF
LANDSLIDES.
IN NORTHERN CALIFORNIA, THE RAIN
FLOODED STREETS AND OVERWHELMED
STORM SEWERS NEAR SONOMA.
AND, HIGH WINDS AND WAVES IN SAN
FRANCISCO BAY FORCED
CANCELLATIONS OF COMMUTER
FERRIES AND OTHER MASS TRANSIT.
THE STORM WAS BRINGING BLIZZARD
CONDITIONS TO THE SIERRA NEVADA
MOUNTAINS, BUT IT COULD ALSO
HELP DROUGHT-STRICKEN FARMERS.
>> Woodruff: A TOP AL-QAEDA
LEADER IN YEMEN BLAMED PRESIDENT
OBAMA TODAY FOR THE DEATHS OF
TWO HOSTAGES LAST WEEKEND.
AMERICAN LUKE SOMERS AND SOUTH
AFRICAN PIERRE KORKIE WERE SHOT
TO DEATH BEFORE A U.S. SPECIAL
FORCES RAID COULD RESCUE THEM.
THE AL-QAEDA FIGURE SAID THE
U.S. ACTED RECKLESSLY, INSTEAD
OF NEGOTIATING.
>> ( translated ): THIS MESSAGE
IS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ABOUT
THE KILLING OF HOSTAGES IN
YEMEN.
AFTER OUR MESSAGE WE GAVE OBAMA
AND HIS GOVERNMENT THREE DAYS TO
FULFILL DEMANDS OF THE
MUJAHIDEEN, WITH IT WAS AN
PEAPOBAMA MADE THE WRONG DECISIN
WHICH WAS ACCOUNTED AS A
SIGNATURE OF EXECUTION OF AN
AMERICAN CITIZEN.
>> Woodruff: THE MESSAGE SAID
AL-QAEDA WANTED TO EXCHANGE LUKE
SOMERS FOR DETAINEES AT
GUANTANAMO.
>> Ifill: IN HONG KONG, POLICE
CLEARED MOST OF THE MAIN PRO-
DEMOCRACY PROTEST SITE TODAY,
AFTER A NEARLY TWO-MONTH
STANDOFF WITH DEMONSTRATORS.
JOHN SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS
>> Reporter: WHEN 1,000
POLICEMEN TURNED UP IN CENTRAL
HONG KONG THIS MORNING.
EVERYBODY KNEW THAT THE FINAL
CLEARANCE WAS ABOUT TO BEGIN.
FOR 75 DAYS PRO-DEMOCRACY
ACTIVISTS HAVE OCCUPIED THIS
SITE AN EIGHT LANE HIGHWAY IN
THE HEART OF CITY.
BUT THEIR DEMONSTRATION WAS OVER
THE AUTHORITIES WERE TAKING IT
BACK.
>> A COLLECTION OF COURT
BAILIFFS, OPENED THE
PROCEEDINGS.
WE'RE ENFORCING AN INJUNCTION
SAID THIS OFFICIAL.
YOU OBSTACLES WILL N BEOW
REMOVED.
AND MEN ARMED WITH SHARP KNIVES
AND BOLT CUTTERS GOT TO WORK,
TEARING THE PROTESTORS'
BARRICADES APART.
THE PROTESTORS OFFERED LITTLE
RESISTANCE.
JUST A FINAL RALLY IN A PLACE
THEY CALLED THE MAIN STAGE.
GIVE US UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE THEY
CRIED BUT THE TERRITORY'S
GOVERNMENT AND THEIR MASTERS IN
BEIJING HAVE REFUSED TO
NEGOTIATE.
FOR PROTEST LEADERS, IT IS A
PAINFUL RETREAT.
TWO MONTHS AGO, HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS CONGREGATED IN THE
CITY CENTER.
REPRESENTING THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGE TO CHINESE AUTHORITY
SINCE THE PROTESTS IN TIANANMEN
SQUARE.
BUT THE AUTHORITIES HAVE
OUTLASTED THEIR YOUTHFUL, TECH-
SAVY OPPONENTS.
AND THEY'VE CENSORED THEIR IDEAS
IN THE REST OF CHINA.
HONG KONG WILL GET ITS ROAD
BACK, BUT LIFE IS UNLIKELY TO
RETURN TO NORMAL.
IN A NEWLY POLITICIZED CITY,
THERE ARE MANY HERE WHO DO NOT
LIKE WHERE IT'S GOING.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, A JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
REPORT SHED NEW LIGHT ON RAPE
AND SEXUAL ASSAULT AMONG
COLLEGE-AGE WOMEN.
ACCORDING TO THE FINDINGS, ONLY
ABOUT 20% OF CAMPUS SEXUAL
ASSAULT VICTIMS GO TO POLICE.
ONE IN TEN VICTIMS SAY THEY DID
NOT THINK THE INCIDENT WAS
IMPORTANT ENOUGH TO TELL THE
AUTHORITIES.
AND THE RATE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
WAS FAR HIGHER FOR NON-STUDENTS
THAN FOR STUDENTS.
THE REPORT SPANNED THE YEARS
1995 TO 2013.
>> Ifill: ON WALL STREET, STOCKS
RALLIED, THEN RETREATED SOME, AS
THE FALLING PRICE OF OIL HURT
ENERGY STOCKS AGAIN.
OIL FINISHED BELOW $60 A BARREL
IN NEW YORK TRADG, INDOWN 44%
FROM ITS PEAK BACK IN JUNE.
THAT LIMITED THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE TO A GAIN OF
63 POINTS, CLOSING AT 17,596.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 24 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,708.
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED 9, TO
FINISH AT 2,035.
>> Woodruff: SLIDING OIL PRICES
ALSO SENT THE RUSSIAN RUBLE TO
YET ANOTHER ALL-TIME LOW.
MEANWHILE, CHINA'S LEADERS
REAFFIRMED A GOAL OF SLOWER
ECONOMIC EXPANSION IN 2015, IN A
BID FOR MORE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH.
THE NEW TARGET IS EXPECTED TO BE
SEVEN PERCENT.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
A RARE PUBLIC RESPONSE FROM THE
HEAD OF THE C.I.A.
BUILDING TRUST BETWEEN POLICE
AND COMMUNITIES.
PERU'S INDIGENOUS PEOPLE FIGHT
TO PRESERVE THEIR LAND.
WHY MORE PEOPLE ARE LESS HOPEFUL
ABOUT THE AMERICAN DREAM.
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT THIS
YEAR'S FLU SEASON.
AND, WHAT'S BEHIND THE SUCCESS
OF THE PODCAST "SERIAL."
>> Ifill: THE DIRECTOR OF THE
STRUCK BACK TODAY AT A SCATHING
SENATE REPORT ON INTERROGATIONS
IN THE YEARS AFTER 9/11.
JOHN BRENNAN TOOK THE HIGHLY
UNUSUAL STEP OF CALLING
REPORTERS TO C.I.A.
HEADQUARTERS, IN LANGLEY,
VIRGINIA, TO MAKE HIS CASE
>> THERE WERE NO EASY ANSWERS,
AND WHATEVER YOUR VIEWS ARE ON
E.I.T.'S, OUR NATION AND IN
PARTICULAR THIS AGENCY DID A LOT
OF THINGS RIGHT DURING THIS
PERIOD OF TIME TO KEEP OUR
NATION STRONG AND SECURE.
>> Ifill: BRENNAN WAS DEPUTY
DIRECTOR WHEN SO-CALLED ENHANCED
INTERROGATION TECHNIQUES, OR
E.I.T.'S, BEGAN.
HE CONCEDED TODAY THERE WERE
ABUSES, BUT HE DEFENDED THE
C.I.A.'S OVERALL RECORD.
>> IN A LIMITED NUMBER OF CASES,
AGENCY OFFICERS USED
INTERROGATION TECHNIQUES THAT
HAD NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED, WERE
ABHORRENT AND RIGHTLY SHOULD BE
REPUDIATED BY ALL.
IT IS VITALLY IMPORTANT TO
RECOGNIZE, HOWEVER, THAT THE
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF
OFFICERS INVOLVED IN THE PROGRAM
AT C.I.A. CARRIED OUT THEIR
RESPONSIBILITIES FAITHFULLY AND
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LEGAL
POLICY GUIDANCE PROVIDED.
THEY DID WHAT THEY WERE ASKED TO
DO IN THE SERVICE OF OUR NATION.
>> Ifill: THE SENATE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE REPORT
DETAILED A LONG LIST OF BRUTAL
TREATMENT AND DID NOT FLINCH
FROM CALLING IT TORTURE--
PRISONERS STRIPPED NAKED,
BEATEN, DEPRIVED OF SLEEP,
WATERBOARDED AND SUBJECTED TO
HYPOTHERMIA.
BRENNAN SAID THE COMMITTEE WAS
VIDEDID ALONG PARTISAN LINES AND
DID NOT INTERVIEW C.I.A.
OFFICERS.
HE ALSO DEFENDED THE
INTERROGATION TACTICS, SAYING IN
SOME CASES IT LED TO OR
CONFIRMED IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
>> DETAINEES WHO WERE SUBJECTED
TO E.I.T.'S AT SOME POINT DURING
THEIR CONFINEMENT PROVIDED
INFORMATION THAT OUR EXPERTS
FOUND TO BE USEFUL AND VALUABLE
IN OUR COUNTERTERRORISM EFFORTS.
AND THE CAUSE AND EFFECT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
APPLICATION OF THOSE E.I.T.'S
AND THE ULTIMATE PROVISION OF
INFORMATION IS UNKNOWN AND
UNKNOWABLE.
BUT FOR SOMEONE TO SAY THAT
THERE WAS NO INTELLIGENCE OF
VALUE, OF USE THAT CAME FROM
THOSE DETAINEES ONCE THEY WERE
SUBJECTED TO E.S, I THINK THAT
LACKS ANY FOUNDATION AT ALL.
>> Ifill: IN THE SPECIFIC CASE
OF OSAMA BIN LADEN, THE SENATE
FINDINGS,REINFORCED IN A RUNNING
SERIES OF TWEETS TODAY BY
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN DIANNE
FEINSTEIN, SAID INFORMATION
GLEANED FROM TORTURED DETAINEES
DID NOT HELP FIND HIM.
BRENNAN, AGAIN, DISAGREED.
THAT THE DETAINEES WHO WERE
SUBJECTED TO ENHANCED
INTERROGATION TECHNIQUES
PROVIDED INFORMATION THAT WAS
USEFUL AND WAS USED IN THE
ULTIMATE OPERATION TO GO AGAINST
BIN LADEN.
>> Ifill: ON ANOTHER KEY POINT,
THE C.I.A. DIRECTOR SAID AGENCY
OFFICIALS DID NOT LIE TO THE
WHITE HOUSE, CONGRESS, THE
PUBLIC AND THE MEDIA.
>> THE RECORD SIMPLY DOES NOT
SUPPORT THE STUDY'S INFERENCE
THAT THE AGENCY REPEATEDLY,
SYSTEMATICALLY, AND
INTENTIONALLY MISLED OTHERS ON
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: BRENNAN'S STATEMENTS
AND A 136-PAGE C.I.A. REBUTTAL
SUGGEST THAT SENATE
INVESTIGATORS CHERRY-PICKED
EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT PRE-
DETERMINED CONCLUSIONS.
THE C.I.A. DIRECTOR'S STATEMENTS
ALSO APPEARED TO PUT HIM AT ODDS
WITH THE WHITE HOUSE.
OFFICIALS THERE WOULD NOT SAY IF
PRESIDENT OBAMA APPROVED OF
BRENNAN'S DECISION TO SPEAK OUT.
BUT SPOKESMAN JOSH EARNEST DID
SAY HE HAS THE PRESIDENT'S
SUPPORT.
>> JOHN BRENNAN IS A DEDICATED
PROFESSIONAL WHO HAS DEDICATED
HIS TIME IN PUBLIC SERVICE TO
PROTECTING THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
THAT MAKES HIM A PATRIOT, AND IT
MAKES HIM SOMEBODY-- MAKES HIM
SOMEONE WHO HAS THE FULL
CONFIDENCE OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
>> Ifill: BRENNAN SAID HE
ULTIMATELY AGREED WITH THE
PRESIDENT'S 2009 DECISION TO BAN
TORTURE.
AND, HE SAID THE AGENCY NOW
HOPES TO SET ASIDE THE
CONTROVERSY OVER PAST BEHAVIOR
AND LOOK TO THE FUTURE.
WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT
BRENNAN'S DEFENSE, AND HIS
AGENCY'S STRAINED RELATIONS WITH
CONGRESS AND THE WHITE HOUSE,
WITH WALL STREET JOURNAL
REPORTER SIOBHAN GORMAN.
SHE WAS AT TODAY'S NEWS
CONFERENCE.
SIOBHAN, YOU HAD THE FIRST
QUESTION.
HOW UNUSUAL WAS IT FOR THE
C.I.A. DIRECTOR TO EVEN HAVE A
NEWS CONFERENCE?
>> IT WAS INCREDIBLY UNUSUAL.
I THINK THE LAST TIME IT
HAPPENED WAS IN 2004 WHEN C.I.A.
FACED SORT OF A SIMILAR
SITUATION WHICH WAS A SCATHING
SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
REPORT ABOUT THE IRAQ
INTELLIGENCE FAILURES.
BUT I DON'T BELIEVE THAT WAS ONE
WAS TELEVISED.
THIS STANDS OUT, CERTAINLY, FOR
THE LIVE NATURE OF IT.
>> Ifill: HE SEEMED TO
STRADDLE THE QUESTION ABOUT
EFFECTIVENESS.
REPORTERS CAME AT HIM IN A
COUPLE OF DIFFERENT WAYS ON THAT
QUESTION, THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
TORTURE, IN THE END SAYING IT
WAS UNKNOWABLE.
HOW DID IT SHAKE OUT TO YOU?
>> WELL, HE'S TRYING TO THREAT
THRED THIS REALLY TOUGH NEEDLE
WHERE HE SAYS, WELL, DETAINEES
WHO UNDERWENT WHAT THEY CALLED
THESE ENHANCED INTERROGATION
TECHNIQUES, WHICH ARE THINGS
LIKE WATERBOARDING OR SLAMMING
DETAINEES AGAINST WALLS OR
PUTTING THEM IN THESE
COFFIN-LIKE BOXES, THAT AFTER
EXPERIENCING THOSE TECHNIQUES,
DETAINEES PROVIDED INFORMATION.
BUT HE SAYS THAT DOESN'T
NECESSARILY MEAN THAT THE
TECHNIQUES ACTUALLY PRODUCED
INFORMATION.
THE INDIVIDUALS PRODUCED THE
SO HE'S SORT OF TRYING TO SHIFT
INFORMATION.
THE DISCUSSION TO SAY, WELL, THE
SO HE'S SORT OF TRYING TO SHIFT
DETAINEES WERE THE SOURCES OF
THE DISCUSSION TO SAY, WELL, THE
THE INFORMATION.
DETAINEES WERE THE SOURCES OF
WE CAN'T ACTUALLY CONCLUDE THAT
THE INFORMATION.
THE TECHNIQUES LED TO THEM
WE CAN'T ACTUALLY CONCLUDE THAT
PROVIDING THAT INFORMATION.
THE TECHNIQUES LED TO THEM
>> Ifill: BUT HE DID CONCEDE
PROVIDING THAT INFORMATION.
SOMETIMES THESE EXTREME
>> Ifill: BUT HE DID CONCEDE
TECHNIQUES DID RESULT IN FALSE
SOMETIMES THESE EXTREME
INFORMATION.
TECHNIQUES DID RESULT IN FALSE
>> YEAH.
INFORMATION.
I MEAN, IT WAS INTERESTING.
>> YEAH.
AT THE VERY END OF HIS SESSION,
I MEAN, IT WAS INTERESTING.
HE KIND OF OFFERED A PERSONAL
AT THE VERY END OF HIS SESSION,
ASSESSMENT, AND HE SAID THAT IN
HE KIND OF OFFERED A PERSONAL
HIS ASSESSMENT, WHEN THESE
ASSESSMENT, AND HE SAID THAT IN
TECHNIQUES ARE APPLIED,
HIS ASSESSMENT, WHEN THESE
OFTENTIMES IT WILL LEAD TO FALSE
TECHNIQUES ARE APPLIED,
INFORMATION, AND THAT'S NOT ONLY
OFTENTIMES IT WILL LEAD TO FALSE
UNHELPFUL BECAUSE IT'S FALSE
INFORMATION, AND THAT'S NOT ONLY
INFORMATION, BUT IT CREATES A
UNHELPFUL BECAUSE IT'S FALSE
HIGHER VOLUME OF INFORMATION--
INFORMATION, BUT IT CREATES A
SOME TRUE, SOME FALSE-- THAT THE
HIGHER VOLUME OF INFORMATION--
INTELLIGENCE ANALYSTS HAVE TO
SOME TRUE, SOME FALSE-- THAT THE
TRY TO SIFT THROUGH AND FIGURE
INTELLIGENCE ANALYSTS HAVE TO
OUT WHAT'S WHAT.
TRY TO SIFT THROUGH AND FIGURE
>> Ifill: C.I.A. DIRECTOR
OUT WHAT'S WHAT.
BRENNAN AND OTHER C.I.A.
>> Ifill: C.I.A. DIRECTOR
DEFENDERS HAVE BEEN PUSHING BACK
BRENNAN AND OTHER C.I.A.
PRETTY HARD ON THE SENATE REPORT
DEFENDERS HAVE BEEN PUSHING BACK
SAYING THAT DEMOCRATS, IN
PRETTY HARD ON THE SENATE REPORT
PARTICULAR, ON THE COMMITTEE,
SAYING THAT DEMOCRATS, IN
CHERRY PICKED EVIDENCE AND
PARTICULAR, ON THE COMMITTEE,
IGNORED OTHERS AND DINT
CHERRY PICKED EVIDENCE AND
INTERVIEW STAFFERS.
IGNORED OTHERS AND DINT
IS THAT PART OF AN OVERALL
INTERVIEW STAFFERS.
STRATEGY OF PUSH-BACK?
IS THAT PART OF AN OVERALL
>> THAT I THINK HAS BEEN THE
STRATEGY OF PUSH-BACK?
C.I.A.'S ARGUMENT FOR A WHILE,
>> THAT I THINK HAS BEEN THE
AND THAT'S ALSO BYE-BYE THE
C.I.A.'S ARGUMENT FOR A WHILE,
ARGUMENT OF MANY REPUBLICANS ON
AND THAT'S ALSO BYE-BYE THE
THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
ARGUMENT OF MANY REPUBLICANS ON
COMMITTEE.
THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, THEY--
COMMITTEE.
DIRECTOR BRENNAN REPEATED AGAIN
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, THEY--
TODAY THIS NOTION OF NOT HAVING
DIRECTOR BRENNAN REPEATED AGAIN
INTERVIEWED C.I.A. OFFICIALS
TODAY THIS NOTION OF NOT HAVING
AND, YOU KNOW, NOTED THAT, THAT
INTERVIEWED C.I.A. OFFICIALS
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE BEEN A
AND, YOU KNOW, NOTED THAT, THAT
BETTER WAY TO GO.
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE BEEN A
AND I THINK--
BETTER WAY TO GO.
>> Ifill: PARDON ME, I HAVE TO
AND I THINK--
ASK YOU, WHAT IS THE-- WHAT IS
>> Ifill: PARDON ME, I HAVE TO
THE SENATE DEMOCRATS' RESPONSE
ASK YOU, WHAT IS THE-- WHAT IS
TO THAT.
THE SENATE DEMOCRATS' RESPONSE
WHY DIDN'T THEY?
TO THAT.
>> RIGHT.
WHY DIDN'T THEY?
WHAT THEY SAY IS THAT THE
>> RIGHT.
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAD AN
WHAT THEY SAY IS THAT THE
ONGOING INVESTIGATION THROUGH
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAD AN
MUCH OF THE SAME TIME PERIOD THE
ONGOING INVESTIGATION THROUGH
SENATE WAS DOING THE
MUCH OF THE SAME TIME PERIOD THE
INVESTIGATION, AND IT DIDN'T
SENATE WAS DOING THE
WANT TO IMPEDE IT.
INVESTIGATION, AND IT DIDN'T
WHAT THE C.I.A. SAYS IS THAT
WANT TO IMPEDE IT.
THERE WAS A SIX-MONTH PERIOD
WHAT THE C.I.A. SAYS IS THAT
AFTER THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
THERE WAS A SIX-MONTH PERIOD
INVESTIGATIONS ENDED AND WHEN
AFTER THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
THE SENATE INVESTIGATION ENDED,
INVESTIGATIONS ENDED AND WHEN
AND SO THEY SAY THAT THEY SHOULD
THE SENATE INVESTIGATION ENDED,
HAVE INTERVIEWED PEOPLE DURING
AND SO THEY SAY THAT THEY SHOULD
THAT TIME.
HAVE INTERVIEWED PEOPLE DURING
>> Ifill: THE INTELLIGENCE
THAT TIME.
COMMUNITY IS PRETTY TIGHT IN
>> Ifill: THE INTELLIGENCE
WASHINGTON AND AROUND THE WORLD.
COMMUNITY IS PRETTY TIGHT IN
HAS THIS DISAGREEMENT POISONED
WASHINGTON AND AROUND THE WORLD.
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
HAS THIS DISAGREEMENT POISONED
C.I.A. AND THE SENATE OR THE
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
SENATE DEMOCRATS WILL AT LEAST,
C.I.A. AND THE SENATE OR THE
OR STRAINED RELATIONS WITH THE
SENATE DEMOCRATS WILL AT LEAST,
WHITE HOUSE?
OR STRAINED RELATIONS WITH THE
>> WELL, IT'S CERTAINLY POISONED
WHITE HOUSE?
THE RELATIONSHIP WITH SENATE
>> WELL, IT'S CERTAINLY POISONED
DEMOCRATS.
THE RELATIONSHIP WITH SENATE
WE HAD MARK UDALL, OUTGOING
DEMOCRATS.
SENATOR FROM COLORADO, WHO IS ON
WE HAD MARK UDALL, OUTGOING
THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
SENATOR FROM COLORADO, WHO IS ON
COMMITTEE, YESTERDAY SORT OF
THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
REUPPING HIS CALL FOR
COMMITTEE, YESTERDAY SORT OF
MR. BRENNAN'S RESIGNATION.
REUPPING HIS CALL FOR
BUT SOMETHING VERY INTERESTING
MR. BRENNAN'S RESIGNATION.
CAME IN AFTER DIRECTOR BRENNAN'S
BUT SOMETHING VERY INTERESTING
SPEECH TODAY.
CAME IN AFTER DIRECTOR BRENNAN'S
IT WAS THE STATEMENT FROM
SPEECH TODAY.
SENATOR FEINSTEIN.
IT WAS THE STATEMENT FROM
AND YOU HAD MENTIONED, I THINK,
SENATOR FEINSTEIN.
THE TWEETS THAT WERE GOING ON
AND YOU HAD MENTIONED, I THINK,
FROM HER ACCOUNT DURING THE
THE TWEETS THAT WERE GOING ON
SPEECH, WHICH SEEMED STILL
FROM HER ACCOUNT DURING THE
PRETTY CRITICAL, AND YET SHE PUT
SPEECH, WHICH SEEMED STILL
OUT A STATEMENT THIS AFTERNOON
PRETTY CRITICAL, AND YET SHE PUT
THAT SUGGESTED THAT HE HAD
OUT A STATEMENT THIS AFTERNOON
PERSUADED HER ON-- NOT PERSUADED
THAT SUGGESTED THAT HE HAD
BUT KIND OF-- THAT THEY HAD
PERSUADED HER ON-- NOT PERSUADED
REACHED AGREEMENT ON A NUMBER OF
BUT KIND OF-- THAT THEY HAD
POINT.
REACHED AGREEMENT ON A NUMBER OF
SHE SEEMED PARTICULARLY HAPPY
POINT.
THAT DIRECTOR BRENNAN SAID THE
SHE SEEMED PARTICULARLY HAPPY
C.I.A. HAD NOT CONCLUDED THAT
THAT DIRECTOR BRENNAN SAID THE
THESE ENHANCED INTERROGATION
C.I.A. HAD NOT CONCLUDED THAT
TECHNIQUES, AS THEY CALL THEM,
THESE ENHANCED INTERROGATION
DID PRODUCE VALUABLE
TECHNIQUES, AS THEY CALL THEM,
INTELLIGENCE.
DID PRODUCE VALUABLE
AND, AGAIN, THIS IS THE
INTELLIGENCE.
DISTINCTION THAT DIRECTOR
AND, AGAIN, THIS IS THE
BRENNAN IS DRAWING BETWEEN THE
DISTINCTION THAT DIRECTOR
INDIVIDUALS AND THE TECHNIQUES
BRENNAN IS DRAWING BETWEEN THE
PRODUCING THE INFORMATION.
INDIVIDUALS AND THE TECHNIQUES
>> Ifill: DIRECTOR BRENNAN
PRODUCING THE INFORMATION.
ALSO SAID THAT THE C.I.A. FELL
>> Ifill: DIRECTOR BRENNAN
SHORT IN ITS RESPONSIBILITY TO
ALSO SAID THAT THE C.I.A. FELL
PUNISH SOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO
SHORT IN ITS RESPONSIBILITY TO
HAD DONE THESE THINGS SOME YEARS
PUNISH SOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO
AGO.
HAD DONE THESE THINGS SOME YEARS
SO WHAT IS HAPPENING NOW.
AGO.
WHAT HAS CHANGED?
SO WHAT IS HAPPENING NOW.
IS THE REFORM UNDER WAY?
WHAT HAS CHANGED?
CAN WE JUST SAY OKAY THAT WAS
IS THE REFORM UNDER WAY?
THEN AND THIS IS NOW?
CAN WE JUST SAY OKAY THAT WAS
>> WELL, HE DID POINT TO CHANGES
THEN AND THIS IS NOW?
THEY HAD MADE IN ACCOUNTABILITY
>> WELL, HE DID POINT TO CHANGES
MECHANISMS, AND HE DID SAY THEY
THEY HAD MADE IN ACCOUNTABILITY
SHOULD HAVE HELD SOME OFFICERS
MECHANISMS, AND HE DID SAY THEY
ACCOUNTABLE.
SHOULD HAVE HELD SOME OFFICERS
WHAT HE DIDN'T SAY WAS THEY WERE
ACCOUNTABLE.
GOING TO HOLD SOME OF THOSE
WHAT HE DIDN'T SAY WAS THEY WERE
OFFICERS ACCOUNTABLE, AND IT'S
GOING TO HOLD SOME OF THOSE
HARD TO KNOW HOW MANY OF THEM
OFFICERS ACCOUNTABLE, AND IT'S
ARE STILL THERE.
HARD TO KNOW HOW MANY OF THEM
HOWEVER, A FORMER C.I.A.
ARE STILL THERE.
OFFICIAL TOLD ME YESTERDAY THAT
HOWEVER, A FORMER C.I.A.
HE WOULD ESTIMATE THAT MAYBE 30%
OFFICIAL TOLD ME YESTERDAY THAT
TO 50% OF THE OFFICIALS WHO ARE
HE WOULD ESTIMATE THAT MAYBE 30%
CITED IN THE SENATE REPORT ARE
TO 50% OF THE OFFICIALS WHO ARE
STILL WORKING THERE, AND THE
CITED IN THE SENATE REPORT ARE
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION
STILL WORKING THERE, AND THE
SAYING HE STILL NEEDS TO HOLDY
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION
PEOPLE ACCOUNTABLE.
SAYING HE STILL NEEDS TO HOLDY
>> Ifill: AND FINALLY,
PEOPLE ACCOUNTABLE.
SIOBHAN, IS THE WORD "TORTURE
>> Ifill: AND FINALLY,
"NOW A TERM OF ART IN THIS
SIOBHAN, IS THE WORD "TORTURE
DISCUSSION, WHERE YOU HEAR
"NOW A TERM OF ART IN THIS
PEOPLE LIKE DIRECTOR BRENNAN
DISCUSSION, WHERE YOU HEAR
USING THE TERM E.I.T. AND THE
PEOPLE LIKE DIRECTOR BRENNAN
SENATE AND THE FOLKS IN THE
USING THE TERM E.I.T. AND THE
WHITE HOUSE ARE USING THE WORD
SENATE AND THE FOLKS IN THE
TORTURE.
WHITE HOUSE ARE USING THE WORD
>> THAT HAS BEEN A POINT OF
TORTURE.
TENSION BETWEEN THE C.I.A. AND
>> THAT HAS BEEN A POINT OF
THE WHITE HOUSE FOR SOME TIME,
TENSION BETWEEN THE C.I.A. AND
AND THIS IS BECAUSE PRESIDENT
THE WHITE HOUSE FOR SOME TIME,
OBAMA HAS A NUMBER OF TIMES,
AND THIS IS BECAUSE PRESIDENT
CERTAINLY, CALLED THESE
OBAMA HAS A NUMBER OF TIMES,
TECHNIQUES TORTURE.
CERTAINLY, CALLED THESE
AND DIRECTOR BRENNAN IS IN A
TECHNIQUES TORTURE.
TOUGH POSITION.
AND DIRECTOR BRENNAN IS IN A
I, OBVIOUSLY, DON'T KNOW WHAT
TOUGH POSITION.
TERM HE WOULD PREFER TO USE.
I, OBVIOUSLY, DON'T KNOW WHAT
BUT C.I.A. DIRECTORS-- I DON'T
TERM HE WOULD PREFER TO USE.
THINK DIRECTOR PANETTA, LEON
BUT C.I.A. DIRECTORS-- I DON'T
PANETTA USED IT, EITHER, AND I
THINK DIRECTOR PANETTA, LEON
DON'T KNOW IF DIRECTOR PETRAEUS
PANETTA USED IT, EITHER, AND I
CONFRONTED THESE ISSUES ALL THAT
DON'T KNOW IF DIRECTOR PETRAEUS
MUCH.
CONFRONTED THESE ISSUES ALL THAT
BUT C.I.A. SORT OF HAS LEGAL
MUCH.
LIABILITY IF THEY START SAYING
BUT C.I.A. SORT OF HAS LEGAL
THAT THEIR OFFICERS CONDUCTED
LIABILITY IF THEY START SAYING
TORTURE.
THAT THEIR OFFICERS CONDUCTED
SO THE DIRECTOR IS IN A KIND OF
TORTURE.
A TOUGH POSITION WHEN IT COMES
SO THE DIRECTOR IS IN A KIND OF
TO THAT CHARACTERIZATION.
A TOUGH POSITION WHEN IT COMES
AND AGAIN TODAY, DIRECTOR
TO THAT CHARACTERIZATION.
BRENNAN KINDF O SIDESTEPPED THAT
AND AGAIN TODAY, DIRECTOR
QUESTION.
BRENNAN KINDF O SIDESTEPPED THAT
>> Ifill: SIOBHAN GORMAN OF
QUESTION.
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL," THANK
>> Ifill: SIOBHAN GORMAN OF
YOU.
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL," THANK
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: PROTESTERS CONTINUE
TO TAKE TO THE STREETS AROUND
THE COUNTRY FOLLOWING THE FATAL
POLICE SHOOTINGS IN FERGUSON,
MISSOURI, AND CLEVELAND, AS WELL
AS THE DEATH OF ERIC GARNER IN
NEW YORK CITY.
THESE INCIDENTS HAVE RAISED
THREE PEOPLE WHO HAVE THOUGHT A
LOT ABOUT THIS SUBJECT.
DEAN ESSERMAN IS THE CHIEF OF
POLICE IN NEW HAVEN,
CONNECTICUT, DAVID KLINGER IS A
PROFESSOR OF CRIMINOLOGY AND
CRIMINAL JUSTICE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI.
HE'S ALSO A FORMER LOS ANGELES
POLICE OFFICER.
AND RONALD HAMPTON, A FORMER 23-
YEAR COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICER
IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
WE WELCOME YOU ALL TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
CHIEF ESSERMAN, LET ME BEGIN
WITH YOU.
LET'S TALK FIRST ABOUT HOW
POLICE OFFICERS EVALUATE A
THREAT.
HOW-- IS THERE A UNIVERSAL
TRAINING THAT OFFICERS LEARN ON
HOW TO DO THAT?
>> WE'RE TRAINED IN SIMILAR WA
WAYS, DIFFERENT PRIORITIES.
BUT POLICE OFFICERS ARE TRAINED
TO GO AND TO SERVE AND TO
PROTECT.
AND SOMETIMES THAT MEANS USING
FORCE, AND SOMETIMES THAT MEANS
SLOWING DOWN THE TEMPO AND USING
WHAT WE KNOW HOW TO USE BEST,
WHICH IS A CONVERSATION.
>> Woodruff: AND PROFESSOR
KLINGER, AS SOMEONE, AS WE JUST
SAID, IS A FORMER POLICE
OFFICER, HOW DO YOU STRIKE THAT
BALANCE BETWEEN A TIME TO-- TO
BE PREPARED TO USE FORCE IT IF
NECESSARY, AND ON THE OTHER
HAND, IT'S A TIME TO CALM THINGS
DOWN?
>> WELL, I THINK YOU'RE ALWAYS
PREPARED TO USE FORCE, AND
THAT'S THE KEY.
IS YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THAT
THESE THINGS CAN ESCALATE
QUICKLY.
BUT AS THE CHIEF INDICATED, OUR
BEST TACTIC IS TO CREATE SOME
TIME AND TALK TO PEOPLE.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE TIME
WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO TALK
PEOPLE INTO JAIL.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF TIME WHEN
PEOPLE ARE UPSET WE CAN CALM
THEM DOWN, BUT THERE ARE TIMES
AND PLACES WHERE WE CAN'T.
AND IF IT DOESN'T GET TO THAT
POINT, THE PERSON REMAINS
ANLITATED AND A THREAT EMERGES,
EITHER TO AN OFFICER OR TO A
CIVILIAN, THEN THE POLICE HAVE
TO MOVE FOR A FORCEFUL ACTION.
UNFORTUNATELY, SOMETIMES THE
FIRST MOMENT AN OFFICER ARRIVES
ON SCENE, THAT'S A MOMENT WHERE
THERE'S A THREAT, AND THE
OFFICER HAS TO TAKE PHYSICAL
FORCE AS THE FIRST OPTION,
ESSENTIALLY.
>> Woodruff: RONALD HAMPTON,
IN YOUR EXPERIENCE, HOW DO
OFFICERS-- HOW ARE YOU TRAINED
TO THINK ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK WE WERE TRAINED
IN-- IN THE METHOD THAT THE JOB
OF BEING A POLICE OFFICER IS TO
DEESCALATE ESCALATING
SITUATIONS.
SO WE DON'T REALLY MAKE, I DON'T
THINK, SPLIT-SECOND DECISIONS
BECAUSE WE ARE SORT OF IMPACTED
BY OTHER KINDS OF THINGS IN
TERMS OF TRAINING AND WHATNOT.
BUT ALSO OUR KNOWLEDGE IN TERMS
OF WORKING IN THE COMMUNITIES.
I WAS FORTUNATE TO WALK A FOOT
BEAT AND WORK IN THE COMMUNITY I
LIVED IN, SO I KNEW A LOT OF
THINGS ABOUT THAT COMMUNITY.
SO I DIDN'T-- I WASN'T AFRAID.
SO THAT-- THAT PLAYED INTO THE
FACTOR.
I COULD TALK TO PEOPLE.
BEING ABLE TO TALK TO PEOPLE, I
THINK, IS THE KEY TO BEING ABLE
TO DE-ESCALATE SITUATIONS, AND
KNOWING SOMETHING ABOUT THE
COMMUNITY AND THE PEOPLE YOU--
THE PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY YOU
WORK IN.
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT'S AN
IMPORTANT POINT.
THIS ISN'T REALLY JUST A
CONVERSATION ABOUT TACTICS IT'S
A CONVERSATION ABOUT A
PHILOSOPHYF
AND WHAT WE'VE DISCOVERED OVER
THE YEARS IS THAT STRANGERS
AREN'T THE BEST WAY TO POLICE.
IN NEW HAVEN, WE'RE COMMITTED TO
COMMUNITY POLICING.
THAT MEANS THAT RELATIONSHIP WE
HOPE IS BUILT LONG BEFORE A
CRISIS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> IN NEW HAVEN, EVERY POLICE
OFFICER UPON GRADUATION FROM THE
ACADEMY WALKAISE BEAT FOR A YEAR
AND STARTS TO BUILD
RELATIONSHIPS THAT PENETRATE
THAT UNIFORM IN BOTH DIRECTIONS.
SO THE CONVERSATION HERE JUST
CAN'T BE ABOUT THE TACTICS WE
USE.
IT HAS TO BE ABOUT THE
RELATIONSHIPS WE BUILD,
RELATIONSHIPS OF TRUST, BUILDING
LEGITIMACY IN THE EYES OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: AND, DAVID
KLINGER, IS THAT SOMETHING THAT
IS GOING TO BE POSSIBLE, THOUGH,
IN EVERY COMMUNITY?
>> THE CAPACITY IS GOING TO BE
DIFFERENT IN TERMS OF THE
GEOGRAPHIC REGION.
WE CAN'T PUT PEOPLE ON FOOT
BEATS EVERYWHERE, BUT THE CHIEF
IS SPOT ON, AS IS YOUR OTHER
GUEST, IS WHAT YOU TRY TO DO IS
YOU TRY TO BUILD UP LEGITIMACY.
YOU TRY TO BUILD UP
COMMUNICATION.
YOU TRY TO UNDERSTAND THAT THE
WORK BETWEEN THE POLICE AND THE
COMMUNITY IS AN ONGOING PROCESS.
UNFORTUNATELY, HOWEVER,
SOMETIMES YOU DON'T HAVE THAT
OPPORTUNITY TO KNOW THE PERSON
THAT YOU'RE ABOUT TO ENTER INTO
AN INTERACTION WITH.
AND IN THAT CASE, WHAT OFFICERS
SHOULD ALWAYS TRY TO DO IS BUILD
SOME TYPE OF COMMON HUMAN
ELEMENT BETWEEN THE OFFICER AND
THE INDIVIDUAL.
SOMHINGET AS SIMPLE AS A TRAFFIC
STOP TO INTRODUCE YOURSELF AS A
POLICE OFFICER, EXPLAIN TO THE
PERSON WHY THEY HAVE BEEN
STOPPED AND CREATE A DIALOGUE SO
THE PERSON THAT YOU STOPPED
UNDERSTANDS.
SIMPLE THINGS LIKE THAT CAN
OFTEN LEAD TO THE DE-ESCALATION
THAT MY COLLEAGUES WERE TALKING
ABOUT, AND SO I AGREE WITH THE
OTHER GUESTS ABOUT THIS.
IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND THAT SOMETIMES THE
PERSON YOU'RE DEALING WITH YOU
MIGHT NOT KNOW BUT THERE'S
ALWAYS AN OPPORTUNITY TO AT
LEAST TRY TO BUILD SOMETHING
THERE.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S ALWAYS
THAT KIND OF AN OPPORTUNITY?
>> IT IS, IT IS.
AND THAT IS PART OF THE
TRAINING, TO INTRODUCE YOURSELF,
TO TELL THEM WHAT YOU'RE
STOPPING THEM FOR, TO TALK ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED, TO SORMT OF
HUMANIZE THE WHOLE PROCESS OF A
TRAFFIC STOP, BECAUSE SOMETIMES
YOUR WORK CAN CREATE AN EDGE.
AND WHAT YOU WANT TO DO IS BE
ABLE TO SURVIVE THE CONTACT AND
THE CITIZEN, ALSO.
SO IN HANDLING THOSE KIND OF
SITUATIONS, YOU CAN BRING A SORT
OF HUMAN APPROACH TO DOING IT,
AND THAT IS PART OF THE
TRAINING, AND GOOD POLICE
TRAINING IS ESSENTIALLY TO
HIGHLIGHT THOSE KINDS OF
SITUATIONS AND THEN POLICE
OFFICERS ARE OUT THERE DOING IT.
>> THE UNIFORM AND THE AUTHORITY
IS JUST NOT ENOUGH.
>> NO, IT'S NOT.
>> WE REALLY HAVE TO BUILD A
RELATIONSHIP IN A COMMUNITY.
WE ARE NOT AN ARMY AND
OCCUPATION.
WE'RE NOT A FOREIGN POLICE
FORCE.
IT'S VERY CLEAR IN NEW HAVEN
THAT WE BELONG TO NEW HAVEN,
THAT WE ARE EMBRACED BY NEW
HAVENNERS, THAT WE SERVE NEW
HAVENNERS.
>> Woodruff: DAVID KLINGER,
HOW MUCH HARDER IS IT T WHAT THE
THREE OF YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
WHEN IT IS A CROSS-RACIAL
SITUATION?
AND I WANT TO JUST THROW THIS
QUESTION OUT THERE-- ARE POLICE
DEPARTMENTS DIVERSE ENOUGH IN
THIS COUNTRY?
AND IF THEY'RE NOT, WHY AREN'T
THEY?
>> WELL, IN TERMS OF GOING
CROSS-RACIALLY, WHEN I WAS A
YOUNG POLICE OFFICER I GOT OUT
OF THE ACADEMY IN LOS ANGELES
AND I WORKED THE SOUTH END,
77th STREET PRECINCT IN
SOUTH CENTRAL LOS ANGELES, AND I
DIDN'T HAVE AN INTERACTION WITH
ANY WHITE CITIZENS FOR MANY,
MANY MONTHS, OTHER THAN MAYBE A
COUPLE OF MERCHANTS EVERY NOW
AND THEN.
AND WHAT I FOUND SIHAD SOME WISE
TRAINING OFFICERS WHO SAID,
"DAVE, WHAT THEY TOLD YOU IN THE
ACADEMY IS CORRECT.
WE NEED TO FIGURE OUT A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT ARE GOING TO BE A
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT BUT ALWAYS
TREAT EVERYBODY WITH RESPECT AND
DIGNITY, UNLESS AND UNTIL THEY
DEMONSTRATE THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
RESPOND TO THAT.
>> THE POLICING SHOULD REFLECT
THE MAKEUP OF THE COMMUNITY, BUT
IT HAS TO GO WAY BEYONDT
IT HAS TO BE IN TERMS OF
POLICY-MAKING POSITION.
IT HAS TO BE INVOLVED IN
LEADERSHIP.
WE NEED TO SEE OURSELVES IN THE
LEADERSHIP ROLES AND SITTING AT
THE TABLE WHEN THESE PUBLIC
SAFETY-- QUOTE, UNQUOTE--
DECISIONS ARE MADE IN TERMS OF
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO IN
COMMUNITIES?
HOW ARE WE GOING TO POLICE IN
AND MORE IMPORTANTLY, OUR
COMMUNITIES?
COMMUNITY PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THE
AND MORE IMPORTANTLY, OUR
PROCESS AS WE DEVELOP STRATEGIES
COMMUNITY PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THE
FOR COMMUNITY POLICING.
PROCESS AS WE DEVELOP STRATEGIES
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, CHIEF
FOR COMMUNITY POLICING.
ESSERMAN, COME BACK TO THE
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, CHIEF
QUESTION OF DIVERSITY ON POLICE
ESSERMAN, COME BACK TO THE
FORCES.
QUESTION OF DIVERSITY ON POLICE
WHY AREN'T THEY MORE DIVERSE IN
FORCES.
YOUR VIEW?
WHY AREN'T THEY MORE DIVERSE IN
>> PLAWZ BECAUSE POLICE
YOUR VIEW?
DEPARTMENTS ARE NOT ALWAYS AS
>> PLAWZ BECAUSE POLICE
WELCOMING AS WE HOPED THEY WOULD
DEPARTMENTS ARE NOT ALWAYS AS
BE.
WELCOMING AS WE HOPED THEY WOULD
WE'RE THE MOST DIVERSE POLICE
BE.
DEPARTMENT IN CONNECTICUT.
WE'RE THE MOST DIVERSE POLICE
WE'RE THE MOST DIVERSE COMMAND
DEPARTMENT IN CONNECTICUT.
STAFF IN CONNECTICUT.
WE'RE THE MOST DIVERSE COMMAND
BUT I STILL KNOW MANY PEOPLE OF
STAFF IN CONNECTICUT.
COLOR.
BUT I STILL KNOW MANY PEOPLE OF
I KNOW MANY WOMEN WHO FEEL
COLOR.
UNCOMFORTABLE TAKING THAT FIRST
I KNOW MANY WOMEN WHO FEEL
STEP IN JOINING A POLICE
UNCOMFORTABLE TAKING THAT FIRST
DEPARTMENT.
STEP IN JOINING A POLICE
I KNOW PEOPLE WHO JUST DO NOT
DEPARTMENT.
LIKE THE POLICE.
I KNOW PEOPLE WHO JUST DO NOT
WHAT THEY FEAR IS THE COLOR
LIKE THE POLICE.
BLUE.
WHAT THEY FEAR IS THE COLOR
AND THE SKIN COLOR OF THE PERSON
BLUE.
IN THAT UNIFORM DOESN'T CHANGE
AND THE SKIN COLOR OF THE PERSON
THAT OPINION.
IN THAT UNIFORM DOESN'T CHANGE
BUT A RELATIONSHIP OVER TIME
THAT OPINION.
DOES.
BUT A RELATIONSHIP OVER TIME
SO WE'RE PROUD OF OUR DIVERSITY.
DOES.
BUT WE'RE ALSO A DEPARTMENT THAT
SO WE'RE PROUD OF OUR DIVERSITY.
BELIEVES IN BUILDING
BUT WE'RE ALSO A DEPARTMENT THAT
RELATIONSHIPS THROUGHOUT THE
BELIEVES IN BUILDING
COMMUNITY.
RELATIONSHIPS THROUGHOUT THE
WE WANT OUR POLICE OFFICERS TO
COMMUNITY.
TREAT PEOPLE WITH DIGNITY AND
WE WANT OUR POLICE OFFICERS TO
RESPECT, BUT WE WANT OUR
TREAT PEOPLE WITH DIGNITY AND
OFFICERS TREATED WITH DIGNITY
RESPECT, BUT WE WANT OUR
AND RESPECT.
OFFICERS TREATED WITH DIGNITY
>> Woodruff: WELL, WE THANK
AND RESPECT.
YOU ALL THREE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, WE THANK
THIS IS A SUBJECT, OF COURSE, ON
YOU ALL THREE.
THE MIND OF MANY, AND IT'S A
THIS IS A SUBJECT, OF COURSE, ON
CONVERSATION WE'RE GOING TO
THE MIND OF MANY, AND IT'S A
CONTINUE TO HAVE.
CONVERSATION WE'RE GOING TO
BUT WE THANK EACH ONE OF YOU.
CONTINUE TO HAVE.
CHIEF DEAN ESSERMAN, PROFESSOR
BUT WE THANK EACH ONE OF YOU.
DAVID KLINGER, RONALD HAMPTON.
CHIEF DEAN ESSERMAN, PROFESSOR
>> THANK YOU.
DAVID KLINGER, RONALD HAMPTON.
>> Ifill: INTERNATIONAL
DELEGATES HAVE GATHERED FOR
CLIMATE CHANGE TALKS IN LIMA,
PERU THIS WEEK, HOPING TO BUILD
THE FRAMEWORK OF A PLAN TO CUT
THE WORLD'S HEAT-TRAPPING GAS
EMISSIONS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
ARRIVED THERE TODAY TO HELP WITH
THAT NEW ACCORD.
BUT FOR MANY PERUVIANS, THE
FOCUS IS LOCAL, AS MINING AND
TIMBER OPERATIONS ENCROACH INTO
ONCE PRISTINE AREAS INHABITED BY
INDIGENOUS TRIBES.
JEFFREY BROWN IS IN LIMA,
AND HAS THIS REPORT, PART OF HIS
SERIES ON "CULTURE AT RISK."
>> Brown: THERE WERE DANCERS AND
DRUMMERS, BANNERS AND CHANTS,
TRADITIONAL CLOTHING OF ALL
KINDS.
A MARCH OF THOUSANDS, MANY OF
THEM TRIBAL PEOPLE, THAT SHUT
DOWN PART OF DOWNTOWN LIMA FOR
SEVERAL HOURS.
DEMANDING BETTER PROTECTION OF
THEIR LANDS AND THEIR CULTURES.
THEY CAME FROM NEAR AND FAR,
SOME VERY FAR, THIS GROUP FROM
THE UCAYALI REGION IN EASTERN
PERU HAD TRAVELED FOR SEVERAL
DAYS, BY BOAT, PLANE AND BUS, TO
GET HERE FROM THEIR REMOTE
HOMES.
>> ( translated ): FOR US AS AN
INDIGENOUS POPULATION IT'S
IMPORTANT TO BE HERE BECAUSE WE
WANT TO STOP CLIMATE CHANGE.
WE USED TO HAVE REGULAR SEASONS,
SUMMER AND WINTER DURING WHICH
WE PLANTED OUR SEEDS.
BUT NOW, WITH THE CLIMATE
CHANGING WE CAN WORK THE LAND
BUT SOMETIMES WE CANNOT PLANT
SEEDS, THERE IS NO PRODUCTION.
>> THIS DEMONSTRATION WAS SET UP
AS A KIND OF COUNTER TO THE
OFFICIAL CLIMATE CHANGE
GATHERING TAKING PLACE ACROSS
TOWN.
THE IDEA HERE WAS TO RAISE THE
WORLD'S AWARENESS OF INCREASING
AND INCREASINGLY VIOLENT
ENCROACHMENT ON TRAL AIBREAS
HERE IN PERU AND ELSEWHERE
AROUND THE GLOBE.
>> THROUGHOUT THE CROWD,
PORTRAITS OF ONE OF THE MARTYRS
OF THIS MOVEMENT, EDWIN CHOTA, A
PERUVIAN ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVIST
FROM THE ASHANINKA INDIAN TRIBE
WHO'D SPENT YEARS FIGHTING
ILLEGAL LOGGING ON HIS
COMMUNITY'S LANDS.
IN SEPTEMBER, CHOTA AND THREE
OTHERS FROM THE VILLAGE OF
SAWETO WERE SHOT AND KILLED NEAR
THE BRAZILIAN BORDER.
IN THE VAST AMAZON BASIN THAT'S
HOME TO ABOUT HALF OF PERU'S
MORE THAN 1,500 INDIGENOUS
COMMUNITIES, WITH SOME 300
THOUSAND PEOPLE.
CHOTA HAD SPOKEN OF THREATS HE
RECEIVED AS HE FOUGHT TO GAIN
OFFICIAL TITLE TO HIS LANDS AND
KEEP LOGGERS AT BAY.
>> ( translated ): IT IS A RISK
OF LIFE OR DEATH FOR US BECAUSE
THEY ARE LOGGERS, THEY HAVE
ARMS, THEY HAVE EVERYTHING AND
THEY ARE NEVER GOING TO PAY
ATTENTION TO US.
SO WE NEED THE SUPPORT OF
GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS TO
PROTECT THE REGION AT THE
BORDER.
>> Brown: CHOTA'S REMAINS WERE
FOUND BY A RIVER NEAR HIS HOME.
TWO LOGGERS HAVE BEEN CHARGED
WITH HIS MURDER.
WE ALL ACCOUNTS ILLEGAL LOGGING,
MINING, AND DRUG TRAFFICKING
HAVE BEEN ON THE RISE IN THIS
AREA.
THE WORLD BANK.
IN LIMA THIS WEEK, THE VICE
CULTURE MINISTER WHO OVERSEAS
INDIGENOUS RELATIONS, SAID THE
GOVERNMENT IS WORKING TO RESOLVE
LAND OWNERSHIP DISPUTES BUT THAT
ADMINISTRATIONS PAST AND PRESENT
HAVE STRUGGLED TO ENSURE LEGAL
RIGHTS AND SAFETY IN THESE
DISTANT COMMUNITIES.
>> ( translated ): THESE ARE
REMOTE AREAS WITH VERY LITTLE
GOVERNMENT PRESENCE BECAUSE
>> THESE ARE REMOTE AREAS WITH
VERY LITTLE GOVERNMENT PRESENCE
BECAUSE OF GEOGRAPHICAL
BARRIERS.
FOR EXAMPLE, FROM THE CAPITAL OF
PUCALLPA REGION TO THE COMMUNITY
OF SAWETO IT TAKES SIX TO EIGHT
DAYS BY BOAT.
THAT IS WHY THE MOST IMPORTANT
ISSUE IS TO ASSURE THE
GOVERNMENT'S PRESENCE, NOT ONLY
IN TERMS OF A MILITARY OR POLICE
PRESENCE BUT ALSO IN WHAT A
GOVERNMENT SHOULD PROVIDE TO ITS
INDIGENOUS POPULATIONS: HEALTH,
EDUCATION, SOCIAL SERVICES, AND
SECURITY.
>> Brown: ENCROACHMENT DEEP INTO
AMAZON FORESTS MAY ALSO BE
BIND EHSCENES LIKE THIS, AS
PREVIOUSLY ISOLATED OR UN-
CONTACTED TRIBES COME INTO THE
OPEN.
LAST YEAR, MORE THAN 100 MEMBERS
OF THE MASCHO-PIRO TRIBE
APPEARED AT A RIVER IN SOUTHEAST
PERU.
ANTHROPOLOGIST BEATRIZ HUERTAS
STUDIES GROUPS LIKE THIS WHO'VE
CHOSEN TO LIVE APART FROM
CIVILIZATION.
SHE THINKS SHE KNOWS WHY MORE
ARE NOW MAKING CONTACT.
>> I THINK THAT FIRST OF ALL
IT'S OWED TO THE GREAT PRESSURES
ON THEIR LANDS AND NATURAL
RESOURCES, AND THAT THOSE ARE
FORCING THESE ISOLATED PEOPLES
TO ALTER THEIR WAYS AND ARE
LEADING TO THEIR DISPLACEMENT.
>> Brown: THERE ARE MORE SUCH
TRIBES THAN YOU MIGHT THINK.
THE ADVOCACY GROUP SURVIVAL
INTERNATIONAL ESTIMATES THERE
ARE 15 IN PERU ALONE, AND AT
LEAST 100 AROUND THE GLOBE.
THE HIGHEST CONCENTRATION IS
HERE IN THE AMAZON.
CITING THE THREAT OF CONTAGIOUS
DISEASE AND OTHER PROBLEMS THAT
HAVE DECIMATED PREVIOUSLY
UNCONTACTED TRIBES, BEATRIZ
HUERTAS SAYS THE GOVERNMENT
NEEDS TO TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION.
>> TO PROTECT THEM IT'S
NECESSARY TO OFFICIALLY
RECOGNIZE THEIR LANDS AND TO
ESTABLISH A SERIES OF PROTECTION
MECHANISMS TO GUARANTEE THEIR
LIVES, THEIR HEALTH AND THE
RIGHT OF THESE POPULATIONS TO
DECIDE FOR THEMSELVES WHAT LIVES
THEY WANT TO LIVE.
>> J.B.: I ASKED VICE MINISTER
BALBUENA THE OVERARCHING
QUESTION, HOW PERU CAN FOSTER
INVESTMENT AND GROWTH, WHILE
ALSO PROTECTING VULNERABLE
PEOPLE AND CULTURES.
>> I THINK WE ALWAYS FEEL WE
NEED TO DO MORE.
I THINK THE DEMANDS OF THE
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES REQUIRE US TO
ACT FASTER.
AND WE CAN'T ADVANCE A PEACEFUL
SOCIETY IF WE DON'T FIND A
BALANCING POINT BETWEEN GROWTH
ON THE ONE HAND AND RESPECT AND
PROTECTION OF RIGHTS ON THE
OTHER.
>> Brown: ACHIEVING A BALANCE
HAS ALSO, OF COURSE, BEEN ON THE
MINDS OF ATTENDEES AT THE
CLIMATE CHANGE SUMMIT THIS WEEK
IN LIMA.
AFTER YEARS OF SETBACKS AND
SIDESTEPS.
THE GOAL HERE IS FOR NATIONS TO
COMMIT, OR AT LEAST COMMIT TO
COMMITTING TO SPECIFIC DOMESTIC
EMISSIONS CUTS.
THE GRAND HOPE, A NEW GLOBAL
TREATY TO BE SIGNED AT NEXT
YEAR'S MEETING IN PARIS.
THE EFFORT GOT A BOOST LAST
MONTH WITH AN IMPORTANT
AGREEMENT BETWEEN CHINA AND THE
U.S., THE WORLD'S LARGEST
ECONOMIES AND POLLUTERS, TO
LIMIT THEIR GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS OVER THE NEXT TWO
DECADES.
IN PAVILIONS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC,
PERUVIANS OF ALL AGES TOOK IN
EXHIBITIONS that explained THE
TANGIBLE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE.
THERE, CONFERENCE ATTENDEE CHRIS
FIELD TOLD ME HE FELT ENCOURAGED
BY WHAT HE'D HEARD SO FAR AT THE
MEINGSET, BUT THAT HUGE
CHALLENGES REMAINED AND THAT,
>> THE BIG CHALLENGE IS AMBITION
OF MITIGATION, HOW MUCH WE
DECREASE THE EMISSIONS OF HEAT
TRAPPING GASES.
AMBITION OF ADAPTION, HOW MUCH
WE INVEST IN HELPING PEOPLE COPE
WITH THE CLIMATE CHANGES THAT
CAN'T BE AVOIDED, AND HOW
TIGHTLY THOSE TWO THINGS SHE BE
CONNECTED.
>> Brown: GETTING INDIVIDUAL
COUNTRIES TO ACTUALLY MAKE
COMMITMENTS.
>> WELL, WHAT YOU FIND IS THAT,
THERE'S KIND OF CONSTITUTIONALLY
A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
PERSPECTIVE THAT THE DEVELOPED
COUNTRIES TAKE, WHICH IS REALLY
FOCUSED ON MITIGATION ASPECTS,
AND THE DEVELOPING ONES WHO WANT
TO SEE MUCH MORE OF A INTER-
LINKAGE BETWEEN INVESTMENTS IN
DECREASING AMOUNTS OF HEAT
TRAPPING GASES AND INCREASES IN
HELPING PEOPLE COPE.
>> Brown: CASE IN POINT, OF
COURSE, IS THE HOST COUNTRY
ITSELF WHICH FACES MANY LONG-
TERM ENVIRONMENTAL THREATS AND
AS TRIBAL DEMONSTRATORS SHOUTED
IN THE STREETS, IMMEDIATE,
URGENT ONES THAT DEMAND ANSWERS
AND ACTIONS.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN, REPORTING
FROM LIMA FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: BY MANY MEASURES,
THE U.S. ECONOMY SEEMS TO HAVE
PICKED UP STEAM THIS YEAR.
AND THE MOST RECENT JOBS REPORT
WAS THE BEST MONTH SINCE JANUARY
2012.
BUT MANY AMERICANS ARE STILL
DOUBTFUL ABOUT ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY AND THE ABILITY TO
MOVE UP THE LADDER.
IN FACT, A NEW POLL BY THE NEW
YORK TIMES FOUND THE PUBLIC IS
MORE PESSIMISTIC THAN IT WAS
AFTER THE FINANCIAL CRISIS.
JUST 64% OF THOSE SURVEYED SAID
THEY STILL BELIEVED IT WAS
POSSIBLE TO BECOME WEALTHY IF
THEY STARTED OUT POOR.
A PRONOUNCED DROP FROM 2009 AND
THE LOWEST LEVEL IN TWO DECADES.
THE POLL ALSO SAMPLED OPINIONS
WITH SOME SURPRISING ANSWERS ON
A RANGE OF ECONOMIC ISSUES.
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN OF THE "NEW
YORK TIMES" JOINS US NOW.
WELCOME BACK TO THE NEWSHOUR.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE BEEN SEEING, I
GUESS, COMING OFF THE MIDTERM
ELECTIONS, THAT AMERICANS DON'T
FEEL GOOD ABOUT THE ECONOMY,
DESPITE THE STATISTICS THAT SAY
OTHERWISE.
BUT THIS POLL THAT THE "TIME"
HAS DONE SUGGESTS A MUCH DEEPER,
LONG-TERM KIND OF PESSIMISM.
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN IT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, WE WANTED TO
TRY TO LOOK AT THIS CONCEPT OF
THE AMERICAN DREAM, THIS CONCEPT
OF MOBILITY-- OF STARTING POOR
AND REALLY BECOMING RICH.
WE ALSO ASKED PEOPLE WHAT THEY
THOUGHT RICH MEANT, AND I WOULD
TELL YOU WE THOUGHT SOME OF
THOSE ANSWERS WERE QUITE
SURPRISING.
YOU DON'T NEED TO BE A
MILLIONAIRE IN THIS COUNTRY TO
BE CONSIDERED RICH.
ABOUT 25%, 26% OF THE
RESPONDENTS SAID IF YOU CAN MAKE
$100,000 OR $200,000, THAT WAS
VERY WEALTHY, IN THIS COUNTRY.
BUT WE WANTED TO LOOK AT THAT
MOBILITY ISSUE, AND SO MANY
PEOPLE REPEATEDLY SAID THEY
DIDN'T THINK THAT MOBILITY
EXISTED IN THE SAME WAY THAT
THEY THOUGHT IT MIGHT HAVE
EXISTED BEFORE.
AND, FRANKLY, WHAT WAS MOST
SURPRISING ABOUT IT WAS THAT
PEOPLE THOUGHT THAT THEY HAD A
BETTER SHOT, EVEN THREE YEARS
AGO AFTER THE FINANCIAL CRISE,
AND I THINK THAT IT'S REALLY A
DEMONSTRATION OF THE TALE OF TWO
COUNTRIESF
COMES TO THE ECONOMY WE'VE SEEN
OVER THE PAST YEARS, WHICH
REALLY GOES TO THIS LARGER ISSUE
OF INEQUALITY.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IN FACT,
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS THAT TO ME
STOOD OUT WAS YOU ASKED PEOPLE
WHETHER THEY THINK THE U.S.
ECONOMIC SYSTEM IS FAIR-- IN
OTHER WORDS, THAT ALL AMERICANS
HAVE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY TO
SUCCEED-- OR BASICALLY UNFAIR,
THAT NOT EVERYBODY HAS AN EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY.
WHAT DID YOU FIND THERE?
>> WELL, A SLIM MAJORITY, 52%
THOUGHT IT WAS FAIR.
SO WE LIVE, AGAIN, IN A COUNTRY
WHERE HALF THE COUNTRY THINKS
IT'S FAIR, HALF THE COUNTRY
DOESN'T.
THE MOST INTERESTING AND PERHAPS
TELLING PIECE OF THAT, THOUGH,
IS WE ALSO LOOKED AT WHAT YOUR
OWN INCOME WAS WHEN YOU ANSWERED
THAT QUESTION.
AND IF YOU WERE CONSIDERED-- I
DON'T EVEN WE'RE EVEN--
NECESSARILY RICH, BUT THE MORE
MONEY THAT YOU EARNED IN ANY
GIVEN YEAR, THE MORE LIKELY YOU
WERE, AS YOU MIGHT IMAGINE, TO
THINK THAT IT WAS FAIR.
ONE NOTE ON THE AMERICAN DREAM,
THOUGH.
THERE ARE TWO-- YOU KNOW, WE
ALWAYS TALK ABOUT THIS IDEA OF
THE AMERICAN DREAM.
THERE MIGHT ACTUALLY BE TWO
AMERICAN DREAMS.
THERE'S THE MARK ZUCKERBERG
AMERICAN DREAM THAT ANYONE CAN
START-- OR HORR, AIO ALGER-- YOU
CAN START IN YOUR GARAGE AND
SHOOT MOON.
AND I GOT THE SENSE FROM THE
INTERVIEWS WE DID THAT, THAT
AMERICAN DREAM IS STILL VERY
MUCH ALIVE AND WELL, THAT THAT'S
POSSIBLE.
BUT WHAT'S LESS POSSIBLE IS THIS
OTHER AMERICAN DREAM WHICH WAS
IF YOU WORKED HARD AND YOU GOT
AN EDUCATION, THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO GET A JOCK, THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO GET A HOUSE, YOU WILL GET
MARRIED AND TWO KIDS, THE "LEAVE
IT TO BEAVER" AMERICAN DREAM AND
I THINK THAT IS THE AMERICAN
DREAM PEOPLE FEEL TODAY IS SO
CHALLENGED.
>> Woodruff: AND THERE WERE SO
MANY.
THAT WAS INTERESTING.
AND AT THE OTHER END OF THE
SPRUCT RUM, I WAS STRUCK THAT
YOU ASKED PEOPLE WHETHER THEY
THINK IT WAS A PROBLEM THAT
THERE'S TOO MUCH REGULATION BY
GOVERNMENT SLOWING DOWN BUSINESS
OR NOT ENOUGH.
AND IT LOOKS LIKE, AS WE SEE
HERE, THEY WORRY ABOUT
OVER-REGULATION.
>> THAT ALSO WAS VERY
SURPRISING, GIVEN THIS ISSUE
THAT PEOPLE-- SO MANY PEOPLE IN
THE COUNTRY THOUGHT IT WAS
UNFAIR, AT THE SAME TIME, THEY
ARE WORRIED ABOUT
OVER-REGULATION.
THEY ARE WORRIED ABOUT THE
ECONOMY, AND THEY WANT THE
ECONOMY-- I THINK JUST FROM OUR
INTERVIEWS-- SO DESPERATELY TO
GROW AND TO THE EXTENT THAT
THEY'RE WORRIED THAT REGULATION
COULD BE HOLDING THAT BACK,
WHICH IS SURPRISING BECAUSE ON
THE FLIP SIDE, THERE'S A LOT OF
PEOPLE WHO SAY TOO LITTLE
REGULATION IS WHAT HAS CREATED
THIS INEQUALITY IN THE COUNTRY.
HAVING SAID ALL OF THAT, I'LL
TELL YOU WE DID AN INTERVIEW
TODAY WITH PAUL SINGER, THE
INVESTOR, LARGE HEDGE FUND
INVESTOR, AND HE MADE A
PERSUASIVE ARGUMENT THAT SO MUCH
OF THIS IS NOT JUST THE POLITICS
IN WASHINGTON BUT WHAT HAS
HAPPENED AT THE FEDERAL RESERVE,
WHICH IS TO SAY WITH ALL THESE
LOW INTEREST RATES, THE GREAT
BENEFICIARIES HAVE BEEN THOSE
WHO OWN ASSETS.
IF THEY OWN A HOME OR YOU
ALREADY OWN STOCKS IN THE STOCK
MARKET, YOU HAVE BENEFITTED.
IF YOU HAVE NOT HAD THAT
OPPORTUNITY, IT'S-- IT HAS
EXACERBATED THE SCHISM BETWEEN
THESE GROUPS.
>> Woodruff: INJECTING THE
FEDERAL RESERVE IN THERE.
FINALLY, ANDREW ROSS SORKIN, YOU
WERE AT THIS CONFERENCE TODAY,
YOU TALK TO SMART BUSINESS
PEOPLE ALL THE TIME.
ARE THEY SEEING ANYTHING OUT
THERE THAT'S GOING TO CHANGE
THIS TREND, THAT CAN GIVE PEOPLE
HOPE, THAT WAGES ARE GOING TO
GROW, OPPORTUNITY IS GOING TO
GROW?
>> I WILL TELL YOU, ACTUALLY,
THIS WAS A VERY HELPFUL GROUP,
PERHAPS MUCH MORE SURPRISINGLY
SO THAN WHERE WE WERE WITH THE
POLL.
AND THE ISSUE CAME BACK OVER AND
OVER AGAIN TO ENERGY IN THIS
COUNTRY.
AND WE'VE SEEN OIL PRICES DROP
IN THIS COUNTRY, AND THAT IS THE
EQUIVALENT ALMOST OF A TAX
SAVINGS FOR AMERICANS OF ALL
STRIPES, AND THAT MONEY IS GOING
TO GO BACK INTO PEOPLE'S POCKET
AND HOPEFULLY ENDS UP GETTING
SPENT IN A MEANINGFUL WAY.
EVERYBODY WE SPOKE TO TODAY
THINKS THAT OIL PRICES ARE GOING
TO CONTINUE TO GO LOWER.
THAT CAN CREATE ALL SORTS OF
OTHER GEOPOLITICAL ISSUES AND
RISKS FOR COUNTRIES LIKE RUSSIA
AND VENEZUELA AND THE MEEF THE E
EAST AND ELSEWHERE BUT AT LEAST
HERE PEOPLE WERE VERY
OPTIMISTIC.
>> Woodruff: A LOT TO PICK
OVER HERE.
ANDREW ROSS SORKIN WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FLU SEASON HAS
ARRIVED, AND DOCTORS ARE WARNING
IT COULD BE MORE SEVERE THAN
THEY THOUGHT.
THAT'S PARTIALLY BECAUSE A
STRAIN OF THIS YEAR'S MOST
COMMON VIRUS IS NOT RESPONDING
TO THIS YEAR'S VACCINE.
WHICH COULD RESULT IN MORE
HOSPITALIZATIONS AND DEATHS.
SO FAR, THE FLU IS ONLY
WIDESPREAD IN HALF A DOZEN
STATES, BUT IT'S PICKING UP.
L.J. TAN IS WITH THE
IMMUNIZATION ACTION COALITION.
HE'S A FORMER MEMBER OF THE
GOVERNMENT'S NATIONAL VACCINE
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
SO HELP ME WITH THIS.
IS THE VACCINE LESS EFFECTIVE OR
IS THE FLU MORE VIRULENT THIS
YEAR?
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THIS
OPPORTUNITY.
THE VACCINE ACTUALLY IS
LESEFFECTIVE, AND I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO JUST KIND OF KEEP
IN MIND THAT WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
INFLUENZA, THE ONLY THING
PREDICTABLE ABOUT INFLUENZA IS
ITS UNPREDICTABLABILITY.
THIS IS WHAT WE DO KNOW NOW.
WE KNOW WHEN THERE IS AN
INFLUENZA SEASON DOMINATED BY
H3, OR HTHREE "N" 2, THOSE TEND
TO BE MORE SEVERE IN TERMS OF
HOSPITALIZATION, IN TERMS OF
MORBIT BIDDITY.
WE KNOW WITH THE FLU VACCINE,
THERE ARE THREE TO FOUR STRAINS
THAT PROTECT US AGAINST
UNTHERENSA, AND ONE IS THE H3N2
STRAIN.
WITH THE UPCOMING SEASON WE ARE
GETTING A PREDOMINANCE OF H3N2.
THAT MEANS WE MIGHT HAVE A MORE
SEVERE SEASON.
NOT ONLY THAT, WE'RE ALSO SEEING
THAT THE H3N2 THAT WE'RE SEEING
IS NOT THE STRAIN THAT'S IN THE
VACCINE.
SO IN OTHER WORDS, THE STRAIN
HAS DRIFTED.
SO ABOUT 58% OF WHAT IS
CIRCULATING RIGHT NOW IS NOT
MATCHING WHAT'S IN THE VACCINE.
SO YOU HAVE THE H3, YOU HAVE THE
DRIFT, AND SO, THEREFORE, THE
PREDICTIONS FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS THAT IT COULD BE A
LITTLE BIT OF A ROCKY RIDE
COMING DOWN THE PIKE.
>> Ifill: HERE'S THE QUESTION
EVERYONE IS ASKING RIGHT NOW,
INCLUDING ME.
I HAD A FLU SHOT THIS YEAR.
WAS THAT A WASTE OF TIME?
>> NO, NOT AT ALL.
BECAUSE, REMEMBER, THE FLU
VACCINE CONTAINS THREE OR FOUR
VACCINE STRAINS, AND SO WHILE
THE H3 MAY HAVE DRIFTED AND WE
ARE ONLY GETTING MAYBE ABOUT
HALF PROTECTION, REMEMBER,
THERE'S STILLING THE OTHER TWO
OR THREE STRAINS THAT ARE IN THE
VACCINE THAT YOU'LL STILL BE
PROTECTED AGAINST.
ABSOLUTELY, FLU VACCINE REMAINS
THE BEST WAY TO PREVENT YOURSELF
FROM GETTING FLU.
THAT BEING SAID, I THINK WE HAVE
TO ALSO KEEP IN MIND BECAUSE WE
ARE PREDICTING A SLIGHTLY MORE
SEVERE FLU SEASON AND BECAUSE WE
DO HAVE THIS DRIFTED STRAIN, FOR
PEOPLE WHO HAVE HIGH RISKS OF
COMPLICATIONS FROM INFLUENZA,
THEY NEED TO GO SEE THEIR
PHYSICIANS IF THEY THINK THEY'RE
COMING DOWN WITH FLU SYMPTOMS
BECAUSE THERE ARE TREATMENT
OPTIONS, WHAT WE CALL
ANTIVIRALS.
>> Ifill: LET'S STOP THERE FOR
A MOMENT.
ANTIVIRAL.
WHAT IS THAT?
HOW DO WE COMMONLY RECOGNIZE
THAT?
>> WITH THE FLU VACCINE WE'RE
PREVENTING FLU, AND THE
ANTIVIRAL, AS WE KNOW UNFLUENZA
IS CAUSEED BY A VIRUS, THE
ANTIVIRALS PREVENT THE VIRUS
FROM REPRODUCING ITSELF WHEN
THEY'RE INSIDE YOUR BODY.
WITH PEOPLE WHO HAVE HIGH RISK
FROM FLU, IF WE CAN GET THEM
TREATMENT, WE CAN PROBABLY
AMELLORRATE THE SYMPTOMS A
LITTLE BIT SO THEY DON'T GET AS
SICK, THEY DON'T END UP GOING TO
THE HOSPITAL AND IT MAY EVEN
PREVENT DEATH SO I THINK THAT IS
A REASON WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
PEOPLE SEEK TREATMENT.
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU SAY "HIGH
RISK," YOU MEAN VERY OLD, VERY
YOUNG, OR EVERYBODY?
>> OBVIOUSLY, I THINK IT'S GOOD
FOR EVERYBODY, IF YOU'RE COMING
DOWN WITH FLU SYMPTOMS TO GO SEE
YOUR DOCTOR, BUT I THINK IN
PARTICULAR THE HIGH RISK, THE
VERY YOUNG, THE VERY OLD, PEOPLE
WITH ASTHMA, PREGNANT WOMEN IN
PARTICULAR, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
WITH LUNG DISEASE, PEOPLE WITH
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE.
THOSE ARE THE GROUPS WE REALLY
WANT THEM TO BE PAYING ATTENTION
AND SAY I HAVE FLU SYMPTOMS.
I SHOULD BE GOING IN.
>> Ifill: L.J. TAN OF THE
AMMUNIZATION ACTION COALITION,
THANKS.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
THE PODCAST RISES AGAIN.
BUSINESS IS BOOMING AS
TECHNOLOGY HAS MADE IT EASIER TO
LISTEN, AND ONE PROGRAM IN
PARTICULAR HAS TURNED INTO AN
UNEXPECTED PHENOMENON IN RECENT
WEEKS.
HARI SREENIVASAN GETS THE LOW
DOWN ON THE BIG SURGE IN
DOWNLOADS.
>> FOR THE PAST YEAR I HAVE BEEN
SPENDING TIME TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT WHERE A HIGH SCHOOL KID WAS
AFTER SCHOOL EVERY DAY IN 1999.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S JUST PART
OF THE HOOK OF A WEEKLY PODCAST
CALLED "SERIAL" THAT'S RIVETED
MILLIONS WITH ITS EXPLORATION OF
A TRUE MURDER CASE AND A FELON'S
POTENTIAL INNOCENCE.
>> THIS IS "SERIAL" PODCAST , A
STORY TOLD WEEK BY WEEK.
I'M SARAH KOENIG.
>> Sreenivasan: FIRST REASEDLE
IN OCTOBER, "SERIAL" IS A SPIN-
OFF OF THE PUBLIC RADIO PROGRAM
"THIS AMERICAN LIFE."
EACH WEEK, THE PROGRAM'S
INVESTIGATION OF THE CASE SEEMS
TO UNFOLD ALONG WITH THE VIEWER.
THE FOCUS: THE 1999 CONVICTION
OF A HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR, ANAN
SYED, WHO WAS CHARGED WITH
MURDER OF HIS EX-GIRLFRIEND, HAE
MIN LEE.
"SERIAL" HOST AND CREATOR SARAH
KOENIG, TAKES LISTENERS THROUGH
AN EXTENSIVE RE-EXAMINATION OF
THE ALIBIS, TESTIMONY, WORK OF
THE DEFENSE ATTORNEY DONE BACK
THEN ASKING WHETHER SYED REALLY
WAS GUILTY.
>> WHAT GRABBED ME ABOUT THIS
STORY IS THAT A FRIEND OF THE
FAMILY CAME TO ME AND SAID, "WE
BELIEVE THIS GUY IS INNOCENT.
THERE ARE HOLES IN THIS CASE.
CAN YOU TAKE A LOOK?
>> Sreenivasan: ITS A HUGE HIT
IN THE WORLD OF PODCASTING,
GARNERING FIVE MILLION DOWNLOADS
ON iTUNES, FAR MORE THAN ANY
OTHER PODCAS H
BUT THE IDEA OF A "SERIAL" IS AS
OLD AS CHARLES DICKENS WHO
EXPERIENCED WILD SUCCESS WITH
"THE PICKWICK PAPERS" IN THE MID
1800's.
>> IT IS ALSO OFTEN THE MOST
>> Sreenivasan: THE NOTION OF
PODCASTING STORIES HAS GAINED
STEAM IN RECENT YEARS WITH
POPULAR ONES SUCH AS "THIS
AMERICAN LIFE," WHICH HAS ABOUT
ONE MILLION DOWNLOADS A WEEK-AND
"PLANET MONEY."
LESS-WELL-KNOWN ONES DRAW
SMALLER AUDIENCES BUT STILL HAVE
SUBSTANTIAL FOLLOWINGS.
IN FACT, LAST YEAR, APPLE
REPORTED THAT SUBSCRIPTIONS OF
PODCASTS THROUGH iTUNES REACHED
ONE BILLION.
RAW VOICE, WHICH TRACKS 20,000
SHOWS, SAID THE NUMBER OF UNIQUE
MONTLY PODCAST LISTENERS HAS
TRIPLED TO 75 MILLION FROM 25
MILLION JUST FIVE YEARS AGO.
WE'VE ONLY SCRATCHED THE SURFACE
OF THE OBSESSION SOME HAVE WITH
"SERIAL."
IT'S INSPIRED FAN CLUBS,
ACADEMIC AND LEGAL INQUIRIES,
BLOGS AND, YES, MORE PODCASTS
ABOUT THDCAGLUND IS A SENIOR EDR
AT SLATE WHO EDITS ITS CULTURE
BLOG AND IS A REGULAR PANELIST
ON SLATE'S PODCAST ABOUT
"SERIAL."
SO NOW WE ARE HAVING A TV
CONVERSATION WITH A MAN WHO HAS
A PODCAST ABOUT A PODCAST.
SO WHY IS THERE THIS FASCINATION
WITH JUST ONE STORY?
>> WELL, THE STORY ITSELF IS
GRIPPING, OBVIOUSLY.
YOU KNOW, ANY TIME A MURDER GOES
NOT UNSOLVED, BUT RAISES
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHO ACTUALLY DID
IT, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE GET
INTERESTED.
YOU GET INTERESTED RIGHT AWAY.
THE FACT THAT IT WAS A YOUNG
WOMAN, SUPPOSEDLY KILLED BY AN
EX-BOYFRIEND.
I MEAN, THERE ARE SENSATIONAL
DETAILS THAT GRIP YOU.
BUT THEN, ON TOP OF THAT,
PODCASTING IS A VERY INTIMATE
FORM, AND THE PRODUCERS OF
"SERIAL" AND ITS HOSTS, SARAH
KANIG ARE MASTERS TAT.
AND WHEN YOU LISTEN TO THEM YOU
FEEL LIKE YOU'RE LISTENING TO A
FRIEND TALK TO YOU IN GREAT
DETAIL ABOUT THE CASE, AND
THAT'S JUST GRIPPING.
THAT BRINGS IT TO YOU IN A WAY A
TV SHOW OR BOOK MIGHT NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN YOU SAID
INTIMACY, YOU MADE ME THINK OF
THE FACT THAT A LOT OF US ARE
CONSUMING ODD YE HERE, MAYBE NOT
EVEN IN THE BIG ROOM, OR PERHAPS
THE CAR, WHICH IS ALSO A
SEMIINTIMATE SPACE.
YOU'RE BY YOURSELF.
DOES THAT PLAY INTO WHY
PODCASTING SEEMS TO BE MAKING A
LITTLE BIT OF A COMEBACK?
>> IT DEFINITELY DOES.
FOR ME, I LISTEN ON MY COMMUTE
INTO MANHATTAN ON THE SUBWAY.
I HAVE MY HEADFOANDZ IN AND I
SEE OTHER PEOPLE WITH THEIR
HEADPHONES IN, AND WITH
"SERIAL," GIVEN ITS POPULARITY,
I'M SURE SOME OF THEM ARE
LISTENING TO THE SAME THING I
AM, BUT WE'RE EACH HAVING OURD
COMMUNING WITH THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: PODCASTING HAS
BEEN AROUND FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
WHAT IS IT THAT HAS RECENTLY
MADE IT MORE POPULAR?
APPLE SAID SOMETHING ABOUT,
WHAT, A BILLION DOWNLOADS OF
PODCASTS?
>> WELL, IT'S GETTING EASIER AND
EASIER TO DOWNLOAD THEM.
THERE ARE MORE APPS.
JUST ABOUT EVERYBODY HAS A
SMARTPHONE NOW.
SO YOU CAN GET A PODCAST EASILY.
IT'S BECOMING EASIER AND EASIER
TO LISTEN TO PODCASTS IN YOUR
CAR, AND I THINK THAT'S THE NEXT
BIG WAVE.
NOT ONLY ARE PODCASTS GROWING IN
POPULARITY NOW BUT THERE'S A
HUGE SURGE IN THE NEAR FUTURE, I
WOULD SAY.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THEY'RE
REPLACING COMMERCIAL RADIO AS WE
KNOW IT IN THE CAR, ESPECIALLY
FOR THE PEOPLE COMMUTING EVERY
MORNING OR EVERY EVENING.
>> FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE.
I WOULDN'T WANT TO OVERSTATE IT
YET.
MORE PEOPLE LISTEN TO
TERRESTRIAL PROGRAMS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT PODCASTS
ARE MORE SUCCESSFUL THAN OTHERS
IF YOU HAD TO LOOK ACROSS THE
SPECTRUM?
>> LATELY, PODCASTS LIKE
"SERIAL," INTENSELY PRODUCED
STORY PODCASTS ARE BECOMING MORE
AND MORE POPULAR.
PRIOR TO, THAT COMEDY PODCASTS
WERE HUGE.
AND I THINK THE REASON THEY HIT
FIRST IS BECAUSE PODCASTING IS .
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO ABIDE BY TIME
LIMITS IN THE WAY THAT MOST
RADIO SHOWS DO.
AND SO YOU CAN KIND OF LET
YOURSELF GO.
AND A LOT OF PANEL SHOWS ARE
VERY POPULAR AS WELL FOR SIMILAR
REASONS.
YOU CAN TALK AND TALK, YOU KNOW,
AS FAR AS THE CONVERSATION TAKES
YOU, AND THEN STOP.
AND BECAUSE IT FEELS SO
INTIMATE, THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
LISTENING FEEL LIKE THEY'RE PART
OF THE CONVERSATION.
>> Sreenivasan: SPEAKING OF
THE PART OF THE CONVERSATION,
ESPECIALLY AROUND "SERIAL,"
THERE IS LA
CONVERSATIONS IN DIFFERENT
ONLINE FORUMS, CONSPIRACY
THEORIES GALORE, EVERYBODY HAS A
THEOR BEWHO DID IT?
WAS THERE MISCONDUCT BY THIS
PERSON OR THAT PERSON?
WHY DO WE GET SO INTO THIS
NARRATIVE, ALMOST LIKE AN
INTERACTIVE FASHION?
>> I THINK NOWADAYS WHEN YOU CAN
GO ONLINE AND GO TO A PLACE LIKE
REDDIT, FOR INSTANCE, AND
COMMUNE WITH OTHER PEOPLE WHO
ARE DISCUSSING THE CASE, YOU
START TO FEEL AS THOUGH YOU'LL
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF IT.
AND A LOT OF DOCUMENTS RELATED
TO THE CASE ARE ALSO AVAILABLE
ONLINE SO YOU CAN ACTUALLY PORE
OVER THE VERY THINGS THAT THE
PRODUCERS THEMSELVES ARE LOOKING
AT-- NOT ALL OF THEM-- BUT
ENOUGH OF THEM TO MAKE YOU THINK
MAYBE IF I LOOK SOME MORE I'LL
FINALLY FIND THE CLUE THAT
THEY'VE MISSED.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS
LEADING TO PEOPLE DISCOVERING
OTHER PODCASTS?
>> I THINK IT IS.
I WAS HOME FOR THANKSGIVING
RECENTLY, AND MY YOUNGER BROTHER
TOLD ME HE HAD JUST LISTENED TO
A PODCAST FOR THE FIRST TIME,
AND, OF COURSE, IT WAS "SERIAL."
AND NOW THAT HE'S LISTENED TO
THAT WORNG MAYBE HE'LL DOWNLOAD
ANOTHER ONE AND GET INTO THE
HABIT.
I THINK THAT'S HAPPENING FOR A
LOT OF PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: DAVID HAGLUND,
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S A CUE IF I
EVER HEARD ONE TO ALERT YOU TO
THE NEWSHOUR'S OWN PODCASTS.
YOU CAN LISTEN TO THE FULL
PROGRAM, OR DOWNLOAD SEGMENTS
LIKE SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
SIMPLY TO TO Itunes AND
SUBSCRIBE.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
C.I.A. DIRECTOR JOHN BRENNAN
DEFENDED HIS AGENCY AGAINST
CLAIMS OF TORTURE.
BUT HE ALSO SAID THE ULTIMATE
VALUE OF THE TACTICS USED ON
TERROR SUSPECTS IS UNKNOWABLE.
AND A MIDNIGHT DEADLINE NEARED
FOR AVOIDING ANOTHER GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN.
HOUSE REPUBLICAN LEADERS, AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA, WORKED TO
OVERCOME OPPOSITION TO A $1.1
TRILLION SPENDING BILL.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, WE CONTINUE OUR 12 DAYS
OF GIFT-GIVING.
YESTERDAY WE GAVE YOU A SPECIAL
HOLIDAY RECIPE, AND TODAY, WE'VE
PREPARED YOUR VERY OWN NEWSHOUR
VOICEMAIL THAT YOU CAN DOWNLOAD
ONTO YOUR PHONE.
FIND THAT GIFT, AND ALL THE
OTHERS, ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE EXPLORE DRINKING
ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES,
AND IT'S LINK TO SEXUAL
ASSUALTS, INJURIES AND DEATHS.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE,
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING
WITH MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.